# Kaizendo URL scheme

/{name}{-revision=master}{/id}
/{name}{-revision=master}/{id}{:aspect=main}{/resource}

## Conventions in this document

URLs are described using a syntax very much inspired by [http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-gregorio-uritemplate-04](URI Templates).


## Example URLs

A .csv file with example URLs (including use and explanation) can be found in this distribution:

* t/data/REST.csv
* GitHub: http://github.com/sjn/Kaizendo/raw/master/t/data/REST.csv


## Component overview

project  = One-word keyword that describes the topic or purpose of the $text
text     = Title or id of the a {project} subsection or chapter
resource = Specific resource related to a {text}


## /{project}/

The project name and revision. Revision is optional, and if it is omitted then "master" is assumed.

/{name}{-revision}/

* {name}, e.g. the short-name of a book. May not contain a "-" in it's name.
* {-revision}, e.g. release version or tag - always prefixed by a "-"

### {name}

A short single-word keyword that uniquely identifies the text.

### {-revision=refs/heads/master}

Used for identifying a text (and it's associated aspects) at a specific named revision (a "tag" in git termonology). If {-revision} is not present, we assume HEAD of the "master" branch. (Strictly speaking we might just as well allow any ID here that can be used as an identifying parameter to "git checkout". See the git-rev-parse(1) manual for details).


* -1.0         # Show /{id}{:aspect}/ as it was at revision 1.0
* -2.1         # Show /{id}{:aspect}/ as it was at revision 2.1
* -2.2dev0     # Show /{id}{:aspect}/ as it was at revision 2.2dev0
* -master      # Redirects to the latest stable revision of /{id}{:aspect}/
* -stable      # Redirects to the latest stable revision of /{id}{:aspect}/ 
* -            # List revisions that are available for /{id}{:aspect}/
*              # Show latest (current) stable revision of /{id}{:aspect}/

Examples above are assumed to be below /{name} .


## /{text}/

The $text uniquely identifies a text within a /$project/ according to the following parameters:

/{id}{:aspect}/

* {id}, e.g. chapter number, chapter short-name, or something similar
* {:aspect}, including combination of aspects

A permalink to a /{text}/ must include a revision tag in it's /{project}/ URL part.

### {id}

Identifies a sub-section of a project. For a book, this means $id is identifying a specific chapter.

* /1      # first chapter
* /intro  # first chapter (named) 

Examples above are assumed to be below a /{project} .

### {:aspect=main}

Used for identifying a specific aspect of a text. If aspect is not specified, we use the default aspect (the designated "main" version of the /{text}/.)

The aspect identifyer can look like this:

* :dys         # The main text is rewritten to be more useful for dyslectics
* :dys,depth0  # Text is for dyslectics that only want the basics
* :dys,depth5  # Text is for dyslectics that want lots of depth/content
* :depth5      # Text is for students that want lots of depth/content
* :            # List available aspects
*              # Use default/authorative aspect

Examples above are assumed to be below /{project}/{id} .


## {resource}

Used for any supporting data objects or queries related to a specific /{text}/ aspect.

* /c           # A list of available discussions related to /{text}/
* /c/id        # A specific comment, in context
* /{object}    # Image, SVG or other resource object related to /{text}/
* /meta        # Access meta information about the /$text/

Examples above are assumed to be below /{project}/{text} .


### Examples

* /history/2/

Show the contents of the latest stable version of the main aspect of chapter 2 of the history book.

* /history/2;dys/c  

List comments related to dyslectic's aspect of chapter 2 in the history book.


